Okay.
So the code changes that we added in the last couple of lessons are going to cause our tests to fail
for the job filter side bar job types component.
But the good news is these failures are to be expected.
They are caused by the same reason that we saw a couple lessons ago when we were refactoring a different
component.
It's because of our different implementation.
We are no longer relying on a dollar sign store and the dollar sign or property.
We are relying on return values from helper functions.
And as you can see here in our create config factory function in the test suite, we were mocking out
those properties, so we were writing our tests to fit our previous implementation using the options
API.
So all we have to do of course is to remove all of this set up right here and simply handle the same
responsibilities by marking out the helper functions, functions that we're utilizing in the component.
So in our test week we're going to mark out, use store and have it return something to us that we can
use.
We're going to mark out, use router and finally we're going to mark out use unique job types.
That is our own composable function in comparison to these helper functions which come from other libraries.
But we're going to mark them for the same reason, which is we want to create separation between them
in our component so we can test our component in isolation.
So first up in our create config factory function here, I'm going to remove this mark section entirely.
We no longer need it.
We're not going to mark out those properties on the this keyword inside the component.
So let's remove that.
And if we remove that, we're no longer going to need the dollar sign store and dollar sign rooter parameters.
Okay.
So now that we're not going to be able to provide a mock store any a mock router into this function,
how are we going to mark out a store in a router in every test?
Well, we're going to import the use store and use router functions and mock them out and have them
return whatever we want.
So at the very top, we're going to write a whole bunch of statements.
So first up, let's import use store that's going to come from view X.
And as soon as we do that, let's invoke the Mark method on just providing view X and now we're going
to mark out all of that functionality, including use store or we're going to repeat the exact same
logic using use router.
That's right here.
Import use router that is coming from a view router.
And on the line below, I'm immediately going to mark out the view router package.
And finally, I also want to mark out my own composable function.
So right here I'm going to import use unique job types and that is going to come from the source directory
store composable and underline immediately below, you guessed it, we're going to call just mock and
pass in our own directory, which is source slash, store slash composable.
That is the file to be more specific.
Save that.
So now we've imported that functionality and marked it out.
So whenever we run through the component, it's going to use the just mock functions instead of the
original implementations.
All that's left to do is to go through each test and make these mocks return whatever is needed to make
the test pass.
So let's walk through it.
Test by test is right here.
For the first one, it renders unique list of job types for filtering jobs.
All this test needed to pass was a mock store.
And now what we kind of replace that with is the use unique job types composable, right?
Because previously we were accessing the getters property and the unique job types getter.
But now that logic is captured in this composable right here, which returns back a reactive object
storing this set that it's going to get from the getter.
So I'm going to commit this out.
Oops.
Let's highlight this and comment it out.
And then above what I'm going to do is take my use unique job types, composable function.
Now mock function, I'm going to mock its return value.
And as I mentioned earlier, we could return a reactive object that is storing our inherent value that
we care about, which is the set.
But we don't need to, because even if we don't return a reactive object and return to plain set, it
will actually work with the implementation we have in the component on the left.
So to keep things a little bit simple, I'm just going to return this set right here.
So let me copy and paste that right here and right here.
And that allows us to remove our former store.
We no longer need it.
All right.
So there we go.
Previously, we were creating this basic router with a push method, but I actually think we might be
able to get away without using a router at all, because the only moment where we're actually interacting
with a router is whenever the user selects a job type.
And this test doesn't care about that, that this care this test only cares about rendering the unique
list of job types.
So I'm curious if we simply use the default just mock function of use router and have it return the
undefined when invoked.
I'm curious if that would be enough for this test to work and pass by itself.
So let's try removing router by itself.
And here we're mounting.
And remember, our create config function no longer takes these arguments so we can remove them.
So let's remove store.
Let's remove router.
There we go.
Save that.
And you can see the test is becoming a little bit cleaner as well.
So there we go.
Let me just run this.
Using it as a reminder fit allows us to focus on a single test in a test suite.
And as I run that by itself, you can see it is passing.
So that is enough to get this test to pass.
Perfect.
So let's move on to our next test.
It's right here.
When the user clicks the checkbox, it communicates that user has selected checkbox to job type.
So this is a test that we are going to care about the router because that's when this function right
here is finally going to run and interact with our sample router object.
So once again, we're going to replace our store.
We no longer need this.
We're going to get the same functionality from our unique job types composable.
So let me copy this marking from line 23 above and simply paste that below.
I'm going to start off with that.
I'm still going to keep Comet, but I'm going to remove store right here.
And how are we going to replicate the functionality of Comet?
While remember, Comet is going to be a method on our View X Store and we get our mock view store in
this test by invoking use store.
So what I'm going to do is say that whenever my component runs use store, I want it to return a value
and my return value is going to be my mock store object.
And as long as that mock store object has my commit method, that should work.
All right.
And again, the reason we're going to need an object with commit is because whenever the user clicks
the checkbox, our test is going to run select job type.
So when it gets to this line right here, 51, if we simply use undefined will just just return value
by default, it's not going to work because undefined does not have a commit method while our mock object
here will.
So that will be enough to get it to work here for use router.
I'm going to do the same thing, except I don't.
I no longer need this constant.
So I'm going to do is remove this section and simply say when you invoke use router, I want you to
produce a return value.
And that return value is going to be an object with a push method set to a just function.
Once again, honoring the interface that we need right here.
We need some kind of object on line 52 with a push method, and this will be enough to serve that purpose.
So with that, we have completed our mocking in our mounting of the component.
We can remove the arguments to the create config factory function like.
So save that and there we go.
All right, let's continue down and do the exact same thing down below.
This is going to be very, very similar.
So I have a good feeling we can copy most of the code from above.
So let me copy use unique job types and it's mock.
Let me paste that down below.
As far as commits, we're going to do the exact same thing as we did above.
So I'm just going to copy this logic for you store.
Paste it down below.
In fact, this time around, I don't think we need to actually provide commit as a separate constant.
We can simply do it in line.
Since this test doesn't care about it, this test cares about interacting with the router to navigate
the user to the results page.
So.
Remove this former code.
Now, we were formerly creating a push constant so we can track whether it's been invoked below right
here.
And we were providing that as a method to our router.
We still want to do the exact same thing, except we're going to get our router from the use router
function.
We're going to mark its return value.
All right, so here we're going to have our object with a push method.
Now, that push method is a just function.
We can remove this code right here.
We can remove our arguments to create config.
Save that.
Let that run.
And there we go.
We're back to passing test week.
So notice that none of our assertions have changed.
All that has changed is how we interact and talk to our dependencies.
Our dependencies are the thing, things that the component needs.
In order to function, a component needs a view store, it needs a router, and it needs a function
called use unique job types.
We're still providing all those dependencies, but we're intercepting them and providing different values
that can serve the purpose.
So there's nothing that fundamentally broke in our test design.
We were simply using a different view feature the options API, which got access to those values, like
the store in the router through a different way through properties.
Now they get access to it through functions.
So we have to emulate that design, that feature of Vue 3.0 in our tests.
All right.
So with that we've completed our refactor and everything is passing and I will see in the next lesson.